== The OSCAR protocol documentation project ==
This is the OSCAR documentation project, where KeithLea, DavidWalluck, and [wiki:Hoov Hoov] (and anyone else who wants to ContributeToOscarDocWiki) plan to write an extensive set of documentation for using AOL Instant Messenger's OSCAR protocol (also known as AIM/OSCAR). There are a set of OscarDocWikiStandards that are followed in this wiki.

'''UPDATE March 2005'''
 This wiki has had lots of problems with spam. I've set it up so you need to be ''logged in'' to edit a page. To log in, visit the UserPreferences page. Anyone can create an account.

'''UPDATE Dec 2003'''
 I (KeithLea) have been busy with other projects and school lately, and have not had time to document many aspects of the protocol. A few big parts that are done are pretty complete, though: AimSecureIm, InitialAuthentication, and LoggingIn.

 As always, anyone who wants to contribute, even if you don't know too much about the protocol, should feel free to start working on any of the pages that don't exist (or if you want to, adding to pages that already do exist).

== Covered topics ==

Topics we want to document: (pages starting with a ? have not been written yet)
 * AimHistory
 * OscarProtocol
   * CoreProtocol
     * OscarConnections
     * FlapConnection
     * SnacCommand
     * DataRepresentation
       * UnsignedByte
       * UnsignedShort
       * UnsignedInt
       * UnixDate
       * AsciiString
       * AsciiStringBlock
       * EncodedString
     * CoreStructures
       * TlvChain
       * TlvBlock
       * ExtraInfoBlock
   * BasicProtocolActions
     * InitialAuthentication
     * LoggingIn
     * InstantMessages
       * InterClientBasicMsg
         * IncomingIcbmSnac
         * OutgoingIcbmSnac
         * ImAckSnac
       * WarningBuddies
       * TypingNotification
       * IcbmParamInfoSnac
       * IcbmParamRequestSnac
       * IcbmParameterInfo
     * Locate
       * GetDirectoryInfo
       * GetProfile
       * GetAwayMessage
     * ServerStoredInfo
       * LinkedScreenNames
       * ActivateSsiSnac
       * CreateSsiItemsSnac
       * DeleteSsiItemsSnac
       * UpdateSsiItemsSnac
       * SsiAckSnac
       * SsiDataCheckSnac
       * SsiDataRequestSnac
       * SsiDataSnac
       * SsiRightsRequestSnac
       * SsiRightsSnac
       * SsiUnchangedSnac
     * BuddyList
   * AdvancedProtocolActions
     * RateLimiting
       * RateAckSnac
       * RateInfoRequestSnac
       * RateInfoSnac
     * AdvancedBuddyList
       * ModifyingBuddyList
       * BuddyListValidity
     * ChatRooms
     * BuddyIconServer
   * RendezvousProtocol
     * FileTransfer
     * DirectIm
     * ChatInvitations
     * GetFile
     * OldBuddyIconTransfer
     * AddIns
     * SendBuddyList
     * VoiceChat
     * VideoChat
   * SecureIm
     * TrillianSecureIm
     * AimSecureIm
       * SecureInstantMessages
       * SecureDirectConnections
       * SecureChatRooms
   * MiscProtocolActions
     * InviteaFriend
     * AolMailCheck
     * AccountAdmin
     * AimExpressions
     * PopupMessages
 * NonOscarFeatures

== Links ==

 * OtherOscarDocumentation
 * OscarSoftware
