Authenticating with the login server (also called the authentication server or authorization server) is the first step to connecting to AOL Instant Messenger. Normally, the login server is "login.oscar.aol.com", and a connection may be made to it on any port.

The login server connection is a FlapConnection like any other OSCAR connection. One difference, however, is that no FLAP cookie is sent in the initial channel-1 FLAP command.

=== Getting the authentication key ===

Upon connecting and exchanging FLAP version numbers, the AIM client should send a KeyRequestSnac packet:

[[Include(KeyRequestSnac/Format)]]

{{{screenname}}} should be the user's screenname. As of this writing, I do not know what the 0x004b and 0x005a TLV's do; AIM 5.2 sends them, so you should too. 5.5 does not send either of these TLVs, but it does send a new unknown:  0x004c (according to Ethereal), so I'm willing to bet this is a version marker, but that doesn't explain the older 0x005a. It appears that you don't need to send any of these TLVs though.

In response, the server should send a KeyResponseSnac as a SnacResponse:

[[Include(KeyResponseSnac/Format)]]

{{{len}}} is the length of {{{key}}}, in bytes. This key will be used to encode the user's password in the authorization request packet.

=== Logging in ===

The second step of authentication is actually sending your username, password, and some other values. The password isn't sent in plain text, however; in fact, it's not sent at all. Instead, an MD5 hash of it and some other data is used. For more information, see LoginPasswordHash. The format of the AuthRequestSnac is as follows:

[[Include(AuthRequestSnac/Format)]]

{{{screenname}}} is the user's screenname. {{{country}}} is a country code, like "us". {{{lang}}} is a language code, like "en". {{{encryptedPass}}} is the encrypted password data.

==== Successful login ====

If successful, the server will send an AuthResponseSnac as a SnacResponse:

[[Include(AuthResponseSnac/Format/Success)]]

{{{screenname}}} is your screenname, formatted in the way that other buddies see it: if you log in as "joustacular" but you registered as "Joust Acu LAR", {{{screenname}}} will contain "Joust Acu LAR".

{{{server}}} is a string in the form "1.2.3.4:5190". This is the IP address and port number you should use to connect to the "main" OSCAR connection (also known as the basic online service server, or BOS server). {{{cookie}}} is the FLAP cookie you should use when connecting. See LoggingIn for details.

{{{email}}} is the email address currently registered for the screenname. {{{regStatus}}} is a number 1-3 describing the user's registration visiblity status. Using the words of AIM's preferences dialog, the values mean the following things:

|| {{{regStatus}}} || "Users who know my screenname can find out..." ||
|| 0x0001 ||  "Nothing about me." ||
|| 0x0002 || "Only that I have an account." ||
|| 0x0003 || "My screenname." ||

The values of {{{email}}} and {{{regStatus}}} as well as the official format of the user's screenname ({{{screenname}}}) can be modified using the AccountAdmin features of the protocol.

==== Failed login ====

If authorization fails, however, the same AuthResponseSnac SnacResponse will be sent, but with different data:

[[Include(AuthResponseSnac/Format/Failure)]]

{{{errorCode}}} will be an error code describing why authorization failed. Known error codes are as follows:

|| {{{errorCode}}} || Meaning || Tips ||
|| 0x0005 || Invalid screenname or wrong password || If you know the screenname and password are correct, maybe your password hash algorithm code is broken ||
|| 0x0011 || Account has been suspended temporarily || Probably due to abuse ||
|| 0x0014 || Account temporarily unavailable || I don't know when this is used ||
|| 0x0018 || Connecting too frequently || Try waiting a few minutes to reconnect - AIM recommends 10 minutes ||
|| 0x001c || Client software is too old to connect || Try changing your ClientVersionInfo block to match a newer version of AIM ||

{{{errorUrl}}} is supposed to be a URL that helps you figure out the problem. In my experience, however, it is always "http://www.aol.com".

=== Conclusion ===

After authentication either succeeds or fails as described above, the login server connection has no more purpose and should be closed immediately. If login succeeded, a connection should be made to the main OSCAR server provided in the authorization response.
