If you add to this wiki, please sign your additions with your name, like Keith did with "--KeithLea".

= What makes a buddy list easy to use? =

 * Concise, the user should be able to have the buddy list somewhat visible at all times without dominating the screen.
 * Quick, the user should be able to quickly identify the status of her buddies with minimal thought.
 * Informative, structured, detailed tool tips.
 * Quick access to setting status.
 * Easy to add, remove, and move buddies around (even offline buddies). --KeithLea
 * Quick access to more information about the buddy. --KeithLea
 * Ability to customize a specific buddy's appearance on the list by applying certain colors or icons, as well as moving to different parts of the list. --KeithLea
 * ???

= Client reviews =

== AOL AIM ==
http://www.aim.com/

=== Positives ===
 * Informative tool tips: The tool tips for buddies are jam packed full of convenient info.
 * Easy to manipulate offline buddies in "Offline Buddies" buddy group. (No need to select menu item to show and then re-hide offline buddies, and offline buddies do not clutter up the rest of the list.) --KeithLea

=== Negatives ===
 * ADs: they take up way too much screen space, not that a free client would have ADs anyway. Also, the tree view for buddy groups wastes space to show different levels in the tree. It seems all clients that do tree buddy lists have this problem, there has to be a better way.
 * Clutter: a lot of space is wasted to product branding and AIM's desire to be everything. e.g.: stock ticker
 * Platform convention abuse: On windows the close button (X in top right) minimizes to the system tray by default. If the user wants minimize to system tray then that is what the minimize button is for. This is not a problem on the Mac because the Mac has the menu bar across the top of the screen and not each window. The difference is in Windows the buddy list is what I conceptualize to be the core of the application and when I close it I feel I'm closing the application, not the window. But on a Mac the menu bar is what I conceptualize as the core of the application and windows are secondary. It's the convention of a Mac applications to exit them from the menu bar or maybe the dock and not from the red close buttons.
 * Menus are gigantic in an attempt to make every single feature immediately accessible; makes it hard to find what you want. The problem is in part due to the buddy list window being so thin, allowing for only two or three main submenus. --KeithLea
 * Security features are hard to use because of implementation. One cannot create self-signed certificates nor opt to automatically trust all certificates. A big ugly security message sits at the bottom of all secure IM conversations. --KeithLea
 * "Setup buddy list" screen overkill for simply adding or removing buddies. --KeithLea

== iChat ==
http://www.apple.com/ichat/

=== Positives ===
 * Good visual indicators: being able to specify a name such as "Joe Bob" is easier to understand than trying to remember that "Sk8erDude96" is my friend Joe. The same applies to showing buddy icons in the buddy list because you can make each person have an icon to represent them, such as a picture.
 * Key+Mouse combos: Option + double click starts a chat room with a user instead of an IM with them like a normal double click. It would be nice to take this further for things like send file.
 * Generally simple and intuitive appearance, aside from cluttered menus. --KeithLea

=== Negatives ===
 * Poor status indicators, iChat does show a faint grey status/away message for idle/away users but that isn't instantly recognizable. The primary way to identify status is to look at the green/yellow/red orbs on the left. Color blind users can change the settings so they aren't orbs but shapes indicating status: circle, triangle, square. The problem I have is I often overlap my windows such that I can only see buddy icons which helps me see who's online but not their status since that column is hidden.
 * Weak tool tips: they're not bad, it just compared to AIM's tool tips they aren't informative enough or structured enough.
 * Cannot show yourself: for some reason I like having myself listed in my buddy list, iChat won't let me do that. The controls to set your status look a lot like how each buddy is displayed which is good.
 * The visual indicators for buddies animate so quickly by the time I hear the sound event that a buddy's status has changed and look at the buddy list I cannot tell what changed.
 * Poor buddy group implementation makes using buddy groups rarely useful. (You can't see if buddies in different groups are online at once.) On the other hand, I only ever keep one group unfolded at once, but I don't like being ''prevented'' from showing them all at once. --KeithLea

== Trillian ==
http://www.trillian.cc/

=== Positives ===

 * Can look nice with skins. --KeithLea
 * Buggy direct IM, file transfer, and so on. Does not support many other rendezvouses. --KeithLea

=== Negatives ===

 * Skins prevent addition of new features (the latest free Trillian still does not support simple things like typing notification). --KeithLea

== GAIM ==
http://gaim.sourceforge.net/

=== Positives ===

 * Aliases are nice. --KeithLea
 * Tabbed IM/chat windows. It's easy to drag tabs out to their own new window or to another tabbed window (even though it infringes on an Adobe patent). --KeithLea

=== Negatives ===

 * Awful implementations of direct IM and file transfer (crashes, locks up, just doesn't work, ignores firewall redirects). No implementation of most client-to-client rendezvouses (Get File, Send Buddy List, and so on). --KeithLea
 * Poor support for AOLRTF format (the HTML-like markup langauge used to format messages, user infos, away messages, etc.). Shows unknown HTML tags instead of ignoring them like iChat and AIM 5.x. --KeithLea
 * Poor implementation of server-stored buddy list. Buddy list in gaim often looks different than same buddy list when logged in with AIM 5.2. --KeithLea
 * No rate limiting support. When rate limited, alertbox suggests that you wait 10 seconds before doing anything else. --KeithLea
 * Hard to edit buddy list due to a poor attempt to allow editing the buddy list inline (instead of with a "Setup buddy list" screen like AIM 5.2). --KeithLea

= Buddy List Groups =
Displaying groups in the buddy list window has never been something I liked. Personally I've only ever had two groups, "Friends" and "Non-Friends", and since I've started using iChat that distinction is now made by the presence of an address book entry for a screen name, or lack there of. Anyway, despite what I have become accustom to I think users want easy to use buddy list groups.

== The problem is tree based buddy lists ==
As hinted above, I don't like buddy lists based on tree controls. They waste space to show the leafs as being indented to a lower level. Also a real tree control is not needed, I've yet to see a buddy list that has nested groups, which makes a tree control an overly complex and heavyweight control for our user interface needs. [http://gabber.sourceforge.net/screenshots/gabber-20010303.jpg gabber] could have gotten this right with their buddy list which I believe is a tree control but looks more like collapsable groupings. Had they put the status icons flush on the left I would have been more happy with their buddy list.

== The problem with buddy list groups ==
One problem I've seen with every buddy list that does any form of grouping, except iChat, is when you choose sort by online status, Active/Idle/Away, you don't get a continuos list ordered by status; you get two or more lists, each sorted by status. This creates more work for the user if they want to find someone who is available to talk to. Instead of just scanning the list of active buddies, the user has to scan one list, scan to find the start of the next buddy group, and scan another active buddy list. In many cases the user also has to scroll the buddy list because idle/away buddies in the previous group push the active buddies in a lower group off the bottom of the viewport.

== A solution: groups as a filter mechanism ==
I think the solution to this problem is to use groups as something that you can filter the buddy list on. iChat does this but they don't make access to the groups drawer convenient at all. The only way to access the drawer is via the menu bar or a three key combo.

I think a pull down menu or sorts at the top of the buddy list that provides access to various ways to filter your buddy list would work well. If the menu provided choices for each group and each status state. 

I think a customizable set of filters for the buddy list would be really cool. For example, I could hover over the entry for "Newly signed on" to see which buddies signed on within the last five minutes. Hovering over the "Away" entry would show me all buddies who currently have an away message up. --KeithLea
